---
title: "May 15: MinClaw - Your Personal AI"
date: 2026-05-15T09:30:00+02:00
draft: false
toc: true
---

Hello again! It's been a while since I posted, but here I am. I've been busy hacking on something fun recently.

For some time now, I've been using OpenClaw. It's a really cool project and it works great, but for me it felt too bloated. There’s just so much going on- so many files, the configuration was a nightmare to edit. It felt way more complicated than an a simple agentic AI assistant needs to be.

While I was scrolling through Reddit and found this repo called [NakedClaw](https://github.com/geongeorge/nakedclaw). Someone had basically vibecoded the best parts of OpenClaw into something much smaller, something... naked.  And I agree with the author, the ai agent need not be that complicated.This project immediately clicked with me and I loved the philosophy as well.

I gave it a try and yes, the setup was simple. It just worked fine for my basic use. But I felt like it could be even better. So I started my own version, which I'm calling (**MinClaw**)[https://github.com/ashishsubedi/minclaw].

I've been adding the bits I felt were missing:
- Better model support (ollama, github-copilot (I have subscription)).
- Better messaging format and processes. It also shows what it is doing, so the user isn't suprised. Mostly done for the Telegram, as I primarily use that.
- A simple and minimal Web dashboard to see what's going on without always digging into the terminal.
- Better alignment and tooling overall.

This has support for all the openclaw skills from the clawhub, so you don't feel missing out on that. I'm still tweaking things, but I'm really happy with where it's at.

That's it for now. See you later!

Peace out!
